**Overview**: The spreadsheet, 'Standards.xlsx', contains NIRS spectra and compositional data from aqueous XOS and monomeric xylose standards. Each row is the average of duplicate scans.
* **sample**: this is a numeric unique identified for each observation
* **xylose_free**: concentration (g/L) of monomeric xylose in liquor sample, as measured by HPLC
* **xos**: concentration (g/L) of xylo-oligomers in liquor sample, as measured by analytical hydrolysis and HPLC 
* **scanInstrument**: The Instrument used to collect the spectra. `Metrohm NIRS XDS NIR Multivial Analyzer` refers to the monochromator (Serial #: 3010-2412) which is a dispersive NIR, while Multivial Module refers to the reflectance module (Serial #: 3013-1678). 
* **samplePresentation**: Describes the set up used to present the sample to the spectrometer. The quartz ring cup is made of quartz optical glass and has a diameter of ~ 36mm (FOSS Part #IH-0836), which is larger than the sampling window. A 0.1mm gold transflectance head (FOSS Part #99-157) was used to produce transflectance spectra.
* **dataCollectionMethod**: Documents the data collection method used in scanning. `Iris` refers to the aperture used to center the sample onto the collection window in reflectance mode to collect stationary spectra. The spot size refers to the width of the beam used to collect the spectra, which is chosen based on the surface area that the sample takes up within the window, in accordance with the Metrohm XDS manual. 
* **measurementUnit**: denotes the unit of the variables held within columns AA to FFN. Log(1/R) is the default absorbance measurement for a reflectance mode instrument. R refers to the reflectance measurement, which ranges from 0 to 1.0, and is the ratio of the sample and the internal reference reflectance measurements. 
* **variableUnit**: denotes the unit of the column names held within columns AA to FFN. ‘nm’ refers to the wavelength measurement of nanometers. Another possible unit is ‘cm^-1’, which refers to wavenumbers. 
* **scanDate**: The day in which the spectra was collected (m/d/y)
* **labTemp_C**: Ambient temperature (degrees Celsius) within the laboratory (NREL IBRF 218) collected immediately before the beginning of a spectra collection campaign. Collected using a HOBO Temperature/Relative Humidity Data Logger (H14-001) (accuracy is +/- 7 °C  at 20 °C) 
* **relativeHumidity_percent**: Relative humidity (%) of the laboratory (NREL IBRF 218) collected immediately before the beginning of a spectra collection campaign. Collected using a HOBO Temperature/Relative Humidity Data Logger (H14-001) (accuracy is +/- 3% at 20-80%) 
